Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hanselminutes today. I'm talking
with Troy hunt security expert
and also my friend calling
in from Australia. How are
you, sir? Good. I might.
I'm good. You just, if
I understand correctly, you spoke
to the United States Congress, and
you're not even from here.
How did that happen? I
know I was worried. They'd
find out, but no, it
was, it was an amazing
thing, actually. So I had
some folks from this, a
house energy committee, house energy
and commerce committee reach out
back in about September wanting
to talk about Equifax, because
that was a big news
story. They want to talk
about how data breaches were
happening so that they could
then grill the CEO of
Equifax, which they did in
Congress. And then they popped
up a little bit later
and said, Hey, how about
you? You hop over and
chat about data breaches and
what it means to our
ability to do knowledge based
authentication. Is that like, I,
I don't think that talking
tech with what I assume
are highly nontechnical congresspeople, that
sounds super exciting. Were they
more or less a for
lack of a better word,
clever or educated about this,
then you would thought they
would be, you know, it's
interesting that the mechanics of
the way it works is
that the folks sitting there
with, when you see a
testimony in progress, the facts
sitting there asking questions, you
know, the important people in
the suits, they're asking questions
that other people have prepared
for them, that their staff
has prepared for them. And
I didn't realize that until
I went over there. So
in one way, it's a
little bit hard to tell
because a very insightful sounding
question could have been written
by someone else, but then
at the end of the
day, they're there being that,
the face of that question
and having the, sort of
the discussion with you, and
they need to understand what
they're talking about. And to
be honest, everyone that I
did speak to they're both
on camera, on the record
and afterwards as well, they
were very switched on. They're
genuinely interested in, and frankly,
everyone's just lovely. Oh, that's
comforting to know you sound
surprised, right? I mean, there's
certain levels of, of levels
of quality, expectation and education
in, in government right now.
I think we just don't
think, I don't think about
my member of Congress as
being a cybersecurity expert and
educated enough to help me.
So that's good that you're,
You're there to help them.
Yeah, Yeah. That, and that's
it. And look, I think
for me, that was the
takeaway. It's like, this is
important enough that they actually
want to spend time talking
about this. And look, we
all like to throw shade
at governments all over the
world and not just at
yours, but houses as well.
And at the end of
the day, these are people
trying to do a job
with a lot of issues
on their plate. And I'm
just glad that they, they
saw this woman as being
important enough. So I have
just gone to your website,
the website that you're the
most well known for certainly
Troy hunt.com is a wealth
of resource, but I'm at,
have I been poned that's
P w N E d.com.
I put in my email
address and it tells me
that I'm poned on 17
breached sites and one paste.
Well, you baiting may congrats.
And you explain to me
why that's bad and maybe
what's going on here. Yeah,
Yeah. So look, have I
been paying, this is a
data breach aggregation service. So
when we have a data
breach that occurs and our
data and I'm in a
dozen myself, our data is
picked up and it's spread
around the web as part
of this big Corpus of
breached accounts. I aggregate that
and I put it in
one place and I make
it searchable. So you can
figure out your exposure. So,
you know, when I look
at my account, I'm in
things like the LinkedIn database.
So LinkedIn had a data
breach back in about 2012.
The data popped up in
2016 and started circulating. I
grabbed that, put it in
the system, everyone who subscribes
to the services, a free
subscription thing gets an email
address, says, Hey, we just
found you somewhere. And then
you can come along later
on and go, Hey, well,
what is my exposure? Where
have I been poned Hmm.
And I'm in, I'm in
Dropbox, I'm in LinkedIn, I'm
in tumbler, but I don't
know which password is, is,
is, is taken. So w
what do I do? And
just like, I know that
we have all I'm surely
you also have reused a
password once or twice a
year. Oh yeah. Yeah. Look,
I mean, I have seen
data pop up before I've
seen my past when I've
just gone. Oh my God,
what was I thinking? You
know, like we, we have
all been there, the question
about which password, et cetera,
is interesting. And I think
what's, what's particularly curious about,
have I been pined is
the, the way it drives
awareness of the problems with
things like passwords. So for
what I see happening the
whole time is I'll load
data into this system. So
I want to get an
email and it'll be like
LinkedIn, and they'll go, Oh
man. Like I've just realized
that that LinkedIn password is
the same one that I'm
using everywhere else. And it's
using on my email address,
which is the thing that
people can get into and
then reset all of my
accounts. So, you know, like
bad news all around. So
I love the fact that
have I been pine is,
is sort of the, the
educational piece that hits home,
like nothing else for your
normal average, everyday consumers who
can come there and put
their email address in, and
then suddenly realize just how
risky it is to credentials.
It says 17 breached sites
and one paste. What is
a paste Paste is basically
just a block of text,
which has dropped in a
publicly accessible service. Like Pastebin.
So there's, Pastebin, there's another
one called sexy there's ghost
being. There's a bunch of
these services, which are just
designed to share blocks of
text. And you, and I
might use that to, to
share a code snippet or
something with each other bad
dudes often use that to
dump a whole bunch of
credentials from a data breach.
And very often actually we
see Pastebin being used to
put little samplers of data
breaches out there. So it'd
be like, look, he is,
you know, say 10,000 records
from a much larger breach.
And it often becomes the
Canary in the coal mine
for when there is actually
a data breach. So I
draw data from a Twitter
account called dump Mon, which
goes and scrapes Pastebin looks
for patterns to establish what
might be data breach, like
behavior for paste. And when
I find that I pick
that up, I pull it
into have a vampire and
I send an email to
any of my subscribers who
might be in there. Oh,
okay. I'm looking at Delmon.
And it seems to be
quite active though. I mean,
it's seeing emails. It might
be 10 emails. It might
be a hundred, but it's
happening every 15, 20 minutes.
Yeah. It's nonstop. And in
fairness as well, some of
this stuff is not necessarily
a data breach there's logs
in there. There's there's in
some cases, their source code
repositories and stuff like that,
where there's just email addresses
that have appeared in that
block of text. But very
frequently, when you go through
and look at that dump
Mont account, you go to
a particular Pastebin link Indigo.
Yeah. That that's, that's credentials,
you know, that's usernames and
passwords. We see a really
good example is I see
Spotify stuff pop up there
the whole time. And this
is not necessarily Spotify having
a data breach, but it's
lists of email addresses and
passwords that work on Spotify
because people have raised their
credentials. So someone will dump
a bunch of them pay,
spend, and then go, Hey,
give me a slice of
Bitcoin and I'll give you
more. Okay. How do you
know? I mean, are you
manually looking at these to
you? How has this wired
together? Is it just a
regular expressions and wishes? Yeah,
pretty much the lead up.
And I'm sort of quite
clear about that. So I've,
I've kind of diverged in,
in two different directions here
with evergreen pine. So there's
the, obviously the data breach
side of it. So you
mentioned LinkedIn and Dropbox. These
are major incidents, verifiable high
degree of confidence. They're legitimate
tens, hundreds of millions of
accounts in there. And then
there's the Pastebin side of
it, which is, look, it's
just a crawler that, you
know, I was just going
through indexing stuff. If you
find yourself in there because
you search, have I been
paying to you, get a
notification, go and look at
the pace and figure out
whether it's something you need
to be worried about or
not. I went looking for
the pace that I'm found
in and the website is
down and now the domain
has been taken over by
someone that's not the pace
person. Right. So that's, that's
Also possible. So there are
some arbitrary pace where if
I find stuff just laying
around on the internet that
is paced, like sometimes I'll
drop in an arbitrary URL
and that may be on
a host name, which disappears
at some time. And when
you sort of think about
the nature of some of
this data, it's like, yeah,
I can see why that
would get pulled offline. You
know why that may not
be there tomorrow. I'm looking
at the very bottom of
how I've been poned and
it says 4.8 billion accounts.
Oh no, that's insane. Isn't
it? Yeah. That's when I
started this service. So this
is back in December, 2013, I
started it with the, the
Adobe data breach, which was
about 150 million accounts and a
few other really small ones.
And I was like, man,
this is crazy. There's like
150 million accounts in there. And
then it was only last
year. So we're recording this
at the end of 2017.
It was only in about
the middle of 2016 that
I passed the first billion.
And I remember because I
was at NDC and Oslo
and this was like part
of the talk. It was
like, let's flick the switch.
And it's like, do we
celebrate or cry that we
just hit 1 billion? So I've
gone in the space of
just the last year of
running it from 1 billion to
4.8 billion last year and
a half, which is just
like, if I say this
every day and it blows
my mind that there's just
so much data flowing into
the system. What did you
have experience in building a
site that could handle that
kind of data? Because I
assume that the, the scale
needed to make, have I
been poned, it's not just
scale on a person, you
know, on traffic hitting it,
but the backend must be
terabytes. I didn't have experience
doing it on the cheap.
So my experience was when
I stood, have I been
piled up, I still had
an architecture role in Pfizer.
So I was like, all
right, we're building via big
systems. And as a multibillion
dollar company, and there's, there's
lots of money for things
we needed to do. And
I started building, have I
been poned as we were
really diving into Azure within
the organization. And I'm like,
you know, let's just, we'll
do a hobby project, play
with the technology a little
bit, you know, see what
it does. And for me
that the challenge has become,
how do I create something
that's getting bigger and bigger
and bigger for the cheapest
possible amount of money. And
to me, that's a bit
of a game, you know,
that's a bit of fun.
So I, that was a
new experience for me. Yeah.
I, even though I worked
for Microsoft in my day
job and talk a little
bit about Azure. I explained
to people that I talked
to, that I pay for
my Azure sites with my
own money. And you probably
shouldn't trust a Microsoft engineer
or anyone who's trying to
sell you something if they
have free Azure time. Right.
Cause they're gonna treat you
differently. So I wrote a
bunch of blog posts called
penny pinching in the cloud.
And if I can, you
know, if I can run
20 websites on one small,
well, that's, that's free, free
compute. So I would assume
you're not making money on
having been poned other than
giving talks about it, you'd
want to make it as
cheap as possible. Well know,
I remember reading That series
of yours actually. And it
was a, yeah, I liked
that term. And I think
there's a little bit of
the engineer in us, which
is kind of like, this
is a challenge, right? Like
how big can I make
this thing for how cheap?
So it's interesting the way
have I been paying sort
of evolved over time? So
one of the things that
happened maybe about a year
into it is people said,
ah, you should put a
donations link. You know, like
you should let people give
you money. And I was
sort of going, well, why
would they give me money?
It's free? And people are
like, no, no, no, seriously.
They will say, okay, I
put a, put a donations
link on there. And I
thought, you know, I don't
want to be sort of
sleazy about it. I'm not
just going to go, please
give me money. I thought,
what I'll do is I'll
say, look, I do this
out of my own free
time. I pay for the
know, whatever costs, et cetera,
come out of my own
pocket. I spend a lot
of time away from my
family. Wouldn't it be nice
if you bought me a
movie ticket, they'll take the
kids to the movie or,
you know, it's been a
long, hard day here, buy
me beer. And I put
that on the donations page
and it will just sort
of, I guess, more interesting,
tangible stuff. And I started
getting a lot of donations
for it. So, you know,
to this day I get
donations that, that certainly well
and truly cover all the
costs of it, which is,
which is actually surprising and
fantastic. And then the other
thing that's happened over time,
as well as there's been
more companies that have popped
up and said, look, for
example, we're an identity theft
company. In fact, I wrote
about this at the time
the company popped up, said
we do identity theft monitoring.
We would really love to
be able to access this
data because we have got
a 40 million subscribers in the
case of my life, who
are the ones I wrote
about my life said, look,
we would love to be
able to tap into this
data because we've got 40 million
people that we can reach
and let know about these
incidents. And you know, to
my mind, I thought, well,
that's, that's great. Like that
expands the awareness. So when
they popped up, I started
added making some information available
to commercial subscribers. And this
is not, you know, you
won't find a buy now
link or anything on the
site. It's not like you
go there and give me
money to it. Couldn't they
just do it without asking,
you know? And that, there's
a few reasons for that.
So one of the reasons
is that in more recent
times, and this is partly
an effort to keep cost
down and partly keep ethical
use of made the service
rate limited. So you can
only make one request to
that database, every one and
a half seconds. So basically
the max that a human
would want to do on
the interface. So I've done
that. The other thing is
I've always made sure that
certain data breaches are never
publicly accessible. So for example,
if you're a listener who
was in the Ashley Madison
data breach, you will not
be able to get out
to the front page and
find Ashley Madison in the
results. You will be able
to go and subscribe to
the notification service, which is
free. And you get an
email with a verification token
in it. And then you
go after you've proven that
you control the email and
it will say, yeah, look,
you're in Ashley Madison. So
that's never been available either.
And over time as it's
sort of unfolded there's organizations
that do things like provide
a beta based all services
in the security space. So
last I look where we're
a security company. We have
a bunch of organizations that
use our services. They'd love
to be able to access
this data on a domain
level. So that's something that
you can do for free
on the public site, if
you can control the domain.
And it's something that some
subscribers get access to commercially,
if they've got customers that,
that need this information, but
can't necessarily prove that control
the domain. Oh, okay. Did
that change the way that
you originally architected and scaled
the site? Because I'm thinking
naively just hold 4 billion password
accounts, you know, owned accounts
into a hash table and
there you go. Now you
got a website, but then
if you're doing things by
domain, if you're doing things
with notifications that suddenly you're
thinking about a much more
complicated site. So it boils
down to the petitioning of
it. So the underlying data
structure for all of this
is Azure table storage. And
that's what it was when
I started back in the
day. It's still exactly the
same structure today. I'm starting
to look at cosmos a
little bit more now, but
that's another, another discussion. But
the way I designed the
table storage is I said,
look, what I'm going to
do is this is just
going to hold email addresses.
This is all it is.
I'm going to make every
pimp, every petition the name
of the domain. So there
is a really, really big
gmail.com petition. And then the
ROCI of every record is
going to be the alias.
So that made things really,
really super fast to look
up by individual email address.
Cause we know exactly which
petition to go to and
exactly which row to go
to. And usually the look-ups
even amongst those 4.8 billion
records, a single digit milliseconds,
but it also means that
if I want to go
and pull an entire domain,
I just grabbed the petition.
Now I can't really do
that for g-mail. It's just
too big, but for 99
point X percent of domains,
we can go look just
return the whole petition for
Troy hunt.com or whatever it
may be. And yeah, even
when there's hundreds of thousands
of records in there that
still works quite well. Hmm.
Okay. Let me pivot a
little bit because as I
scroll through your blog, which
is like 70 pages of
information on data breaches and
HTTPS and your Pluralsight courses
and all the different things,
I get the same feeling
that I get when I
go to anyone's security site,
who is a security expert
is I think to myself,
we're all going to die.
And it's probably probably my
fault as a programmer. I'm
trying to get a sense
of like how freaked out
I should be. Like, I
read a blog post of
yours on a thing that
was a honeypot or something.
It was called a pineapple.
You, if I find fall
well, yeah, they're kind of
two different things. Look at
the wifi pineapple look, if
fennel is listening and they
don't know what, this is,
just Google my name and
wifi pineapple. And you'll say
it, but it's, it's a
rogue wireless access hotspot, or
can be a rogue wireless
hotspot. And all it is
is it's a little device.
You can buy it for
a company called hack five.
So a hundred bucks for
the, for the nano one,
which is the cheap one.
And you use power of
our USBs. We can literally
just plug it into your
PC and then you can
create your own hotspot and
you might call it free
cafe wifi. And if you
call it anything free, people
will connect to it. I
got to conferences, sometimes part
of the talk, I'll call
it free NSA, wifi. People
will connect to it because
they say free. And then
they go, yeah, that's it.
I mean like I'm sold
and now you have traffic
routed through a device that
you control. And then you
can route that back out
through your own internet connection.
And the reason I show
this device is that this
allows us to have a
discussion about man in the
middle and why HTTPS is
so important in a very
impactful evidence based way. So
I've found this has been
an awesome device for trying
to get people realizing that,
that something like a man
in the middle, it is
not a hypothetical threat. It's
not just like a nation,
state actor kind of threat.
It's like, yeah, someone bought
one off the internet for
a hundred bucks and now
they have your traffic. So
it's impactful though. What is
it? You say that HTTPS
is so important if even
if I connect to your
free NSA, wifi, what, what
can you Snoop about me?
Can you get my exchange
passwords? Can you get my
Gmail passwords? Or can you
not because they're over HDPS.
Yeah. It's, it's the latter.
So anything that's sent over
an encrypted connection is solid.
Now there's lots of nuances
here. And in fact, I've,
I reckon this year, this
has almost been the year
of, of all the different
things I've spoken about where
HTTPS has been. The one
thing that's changed so much
and has also become so
important. So yeah, what's really
critical here is that we're
really rushing headlong into a
secure by default internet. And
at the moment we're, we're
still sort of in that
legacy era of things, defaulting
to insecure. And I'll give
you a couple of good
examples. If you go as
of today to cnn.com, you'll
see nothing in the address
bar to indicate any sort
of degree of insecurity. If
you go to let's say
Troy hunt.com, you'll see there's
a green padlock and there's
green text. And it says
secure. And the really interesting
observation here is that security
is a very explicit visual
indicator. And the only reason
we know something is not
secure is because it doesn't
tell us that it is
secure. And it's almost like
that that is our default
position. You get no security,
just the same way as,
as if you type@cnn.com into
the browser, it's going to
make an HTTP request. And
at some point in time,
they'll go HTTPS and then
it will manually three Oh
one redirect, and you'll get
the, get the, a, the
secure page, but it's still
going to try and secure
first. And that look, there
are mechanical reasons why it
needs to do that as
well. But it's just interesting
the way it's been so
insecure, but where we are
today is now we're up
to almost about 70% of
all traffic on the web
being served are HTTPS, which
is good. And that last
30% gap is being closed
really quickly. But the, you
know, even, even myself as
a fairly technical person, I
still find certificate management a
hassle. Sometimes I forget when
I need, you know, like
I'll have an, an obscure
site or a small site
that I run and the,
the certificate will expire and
I'll be like, Oh crap,
I've got to go and
deal with it. Are those
problems solved or being solved?
So this was sort of
getting us into the, the,
the, what are the barriers
to HTTPS sort of round.
And the two barriers that
I think are pretty closely
linked here, a cost and
management effort. And if we
scroll back, let's just scroll
back only two years. If
you wanted a certificate, you
usually had to pay for
it. It was usually about
70 bucks a year. There
were some CAG go and
get them for, for free.
If you're a not-for-profit and
then you'd have to go
and get the certificate and
it might be in the
wrong format. And then you'd
have to go and download
open SSL and you'd have
to recompile it. You're singing
my life. That's exactly what
I have to do RVP
and do a windows machine
and set it up. It's
horrible. I read a blog
post a few years ago
about how to get a
free certificate on those, your
website. And it was using
a company called  dot
com who no longer exists.
What's another story. And the
blog post was like, here
are all the steps involved.
And people were like, this
is really useful. Thank you
for writing for me. It's
like, it's not for you
as for me. So I
remember how to do it
when I have to come
back and do it next
year, because it was so
painful. It's funny. I think
people who, I mean, you
and I have both been
blogging for many, many years.
I think people forget. They
think that we are doing
that for the people. Pretty
clear we're doing it for
ourselves Too. Subtle self interest,
Almost all my blog posts
are me writing instructions that
I will then go on
for later. This is the
great thing too, because we
have the same problems that
everyone else has. So look,
I mean, that was painful,
that the effort of that
was hard. And, and then
we get to the cost
side of things. And, you
know, if you had someone
who was, who was either
a small shop or a
personal blogger or something like
that, 70 bucks a year
may not seem like much,
but it is a financial
barrier. And people saying, well,
I don't want to pay
70 bucks a year. So
that there's two things that
have happened over that last
couple of years that have
really fundamentally changed that the
management effort and the cost
effort, and probably the first
one worth mentioning here is
let's encrypt. So let's encrypt
is a free not-for-profit entity,
which is backed by the
likes of Mozilla or eff,
and they make certificates available
for free. And they do
so in an automated fashion,
which means that if you
want to get a let's
encrypt certificate on say a
Linux box, if you can
shell into that machine, run
a command, it will automatically
verify that you can control
the website that's on that
box. It will download the
certificate. And then also set
up a Cron job to
go back and renew that
certificate every three months, because
I do three months certificates.
So that's like run this,
you're done, you know? And,
and he just don't think
about it again. And there's
nothing wrong with their certificates.
You know, this is not
like, Oh, it's free. It's
not as good as paying
Komodo money or something like
that. That's, that's not a
question. The mathematics works, Destroy
the market then does that
mean that there's just no
market for anyone else? Well,
this though, man, this is
going to get controversial now.
So this has had a
major impact on the market
because if we go back
only two years ago, let's
encrypt really only started issuing
certificates to the general public
in about April, 2016. So go
back to say, end of
2015, two years before recording
Komodo had, I think it
was about 40% of the
market, like a massive slice.
And then let's encrypt came
along and people like, Oh,
you know, this is cute.
We'll see how this goes.
Maybe we don't really trust
it fast forward through to
today. Then our larger than
Komodo in terms of the
total number of certificates they've
issued at that active today,
which is, which is insane.
So, you know, now we've
got, let's encrypt becoming the
big guys, and this is
having a really severe impact
on the commercial CAS, because
they're going, hang on a
mind. We used to make
money out of this so
that the discussion now has
become really interesting where we're
seeing that the commercial folks
try to, I guess, move
more towards commoditization models, choose
my words carefully here, because
you'll see why they're trying
to figure out ways I
can make money out of
it. And one of the
ways they're doing this as
a saying, you should not
get a DV certificate. You
should get an EBA certificate.
And, and what they're saying
here is if you go
to a site like Toronto,
you see a padlock and
it says secure, and it
says, Troy hunt.com. You don't
know whether that is a
good site or a bad
site. All you know is
it's, it's the domain that
you went to. In fact,
I've quoted you actually in
one of my books. So
you wrote this Epic tweet,
which was something like, all
you know is you're having
a secure discussion. You could
be having a discussion with
site, right? So that the
value proposition of a, of
an EBV certificate and extended
validation certificate is that if
you got to say, have
I been poned, you'll see
it literally says, have I
been poned up in the
address bar? And then it's
got my name in brackets.
So it's telling you that
there is a legal entity
called have I been postponed?
And I just went and
registered a cheap business name
here in Australia. And then
who owns that legal entity,
if there is a parent,
which in this case as
me, and you can see
that certificate and you can
see that visual indicator and
go, okay, well, look, I,
I know that this, these,
the actual company site that
I'm looking at at the
moment, so that's the way
they're now trying to make
their money. So do I,
I'm looking on your site.
It just says secure. It
doesn't say Troy hunt, but
if I go to have
I been poned it says,
have I been polling, Troy
hunt? It's it's longer. It's
green. It's it's it's indicates
a security and presume a
trust. Well, yeah. Now this
is, it gets really interesting.
And that is, here's a
good game for the listeners
as well. The commercial CAS
will say, you should have
an Evie because an E
does imply trust, right? It's
either, we'll give people a
greater level of trust. They
will respect your site more.
They'll sign up more. They'll
give you more money, yada,
yada, yada. Now here's the
problem. If this is the
case, then you would assume
that big sites would want
to have Evy, but see
how many of the world's
top 10 largest websites have
either. So for example, Facebook.
So for the listeners at
home, does Facebook have an
Navy certificate without looking at?
No, it doesn't. What about
Google? No. Google doesn't. What
about Amazon now? Amazon does
it, Am I saying New York
times? Nothing. I know, right?
It's like, it just simply
doesn't exist, but it does
exist on some services some
of the time. So Twitter's
a really good example. I
put a tweet out. This
would have been in the
middle of the year, said,
Hey, look, isn't it interesting.
Here's the top 10 sites.
And I had a little
screen cap of all the
tabs and none of them
had a V and, and
one of them was Twitter.
That was the 10th largest
site. And then a whole
bunch of people came back
and said, well, hang on
a second. Twitter does have
a V and here is
a screen cap. And then
this guy in Norway said,
no, no, no, it doesn't.
Here's a screen cap. And
what we actually discovered is
that Twitter, depending on where
you are, we're serving up
an EVP versus a DV
certificate. But here's the big,
insightful part of this. I
got all these different places
where Twitter doesn't does not
have an ABA certificate. And
I had never noticed, and
I look for this stuff,
right? So I'm sort of
going out if I don't
know when it does or
it doesn't and everyone listening
doesn't know either. And I
know you don't know, because
I ask this question every
time I do a workshop,
then does it actually change
your behavior in the absence
of an AAV certificate? Because
the, this is the, the
argument, right? The CAS will
say, well, if you don't
have an eBay certificate, people
won't trust you as much,
or actually no, like it,
frankly, we're doing a good
job of people even look
for the padlock. It's interesting
that you say that because
I used to work in
banking and you know, you
and I are talking in
end of 2017, early 2018.
I'm looking at a blog
post that I wrote in
October of 2006. So we're
talking 11 years ago. And
when he V certificates were
still coming out and it
was a big deal, you
had to actually go and
visit the data center and
be audited. Like it was
hard to get one, right,
and say what you will
about internet Explorer. But they
were trying to push these
EVs certificates so much so
that they would light up
the entire top bar in
bright green, if there was
an Evie certificate. And now
here we are, 11 years
later, it's supposed to be
a secure web. And frankly,
the green in Chrome here,
you know, could be kind
of a gray black. It
doesn't really stand out if
they really were serious. Why
don't they light up the
whole bar? Well, part of
the problem Is not so
much. What do you show
when a Navy certificate is
present, but it's, what do
you show when it's not
present? Because really what you're
trying to say here is
that if you go to
a site and it doesn't
have an Navy certificate, you
shouldn't trust it as much.
And, and this again is
one of these problems where
you're trying to get people
to change their behavior in
the absence of some form
of visual indicator. And look,
I mean, we know how
hard it is, just getting
users not to click through
and ignore security warnings. You
know, like how much harder
do you think it is
to say, Hey, when you
go to a website and
you don't see this thing,
you know, don't trust it.
And also we can't condition
people to that because most
of the websites out there
in most of the world's
largest websites, don't have one.
Anyway, That's funny that you
mentioned that because I actually
did a blog, a podcast
rather with Adrianne Porterfield, who
does the usability security for
Chrome. She's a PhD and
a security researcher at Google.
I did a podcast with
her episode four 86. And
she talked about doing all
the user testing and AB
testing to find out how
can we keep people from
clicking past those security warnings?
And she also told me
something interesting. Do you know
what the number one cause
of security warnings is you're
gonna love this. It's people
changing their clocks forward to
try to get more coins
in games like candy crush.
This is where we are.
And this is where we
are, which is tragic because
we are at the end
of our show. Oh man,
what a cell nine to
a number. Well, I think
that great note is though
that if you go to
dot com, you've got
workshops and speaking, you're all
over the world and people
can learn about security from
you. And because of things
like this, I have a
long and fruitful career ahead
of me. So thank you
everyone for putting your clocks
forward, the candy crush, You
will never not have a
job. Yep. I'm looking at
your upcoming events. You're in
Australia. You're in London. We'll
be in London together in
a couple of weeks and
you're all over the world.
And I appreciate you. And
thanks so much for coming
on the show. Good on
you. Thanks. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .